The apostle Paul presented information
that was informative to his audience.
For instance, what he said
to Jews in Jerusalem
differed from what he said
to Greeks in Athens.
He wrote,
as recorded at 1 Corinthians chapter 9:
“To the Jews I became as a Jew
“in order to gain Jews . . .
“To those without law
“I became as without law . . .
“I have become all things
“to people of all sorts,
“so that I might by all possible means
“save some.
“But I do all things for the sake
of the good news.”
How can we make our  teaching
informative to our audience?
First, we should consider
what our listeners already know.
For example, if we’re speaking
to a congregation of mature Christians,
we shouldn’t simply repeat
basic Bible truths that they’ve heard before.
Instead,
we can help them to look at the topic
from a fresh perspective.
Watch the following example.
Is the presentation informative
to the audience?
At John 13:35,
Jesus explained
how to identify his followers.
He said:
“By this all will know
that you are my disciples
—if you have love among yourselves.”
That expression,
“among yourselves,”
shows that all true Christians
would be together
in one group or organization.
And this organization
would be identified
by the love its members have
for one another.
Isn’t it common during war
for people of the same religion
but who live in opposing countries
to slaughter one another?
Is there any religion in which
people truly view fellow worshippers
from another neighborhood,
city, or country as their brother?
Was that informative?
If the speaker was talking
to unbelieving relatives or workmates,
then, yes, it was informative.
But let’s say that he was
giving a talk to mature Christians.
If he spent a lot of time
presenting basic information
that the audience already knew,
he might quickly lose their attention.
How could he discuss the same scripture,
John 13:35,
in a way that would be informative
to an audience of fellow believers?
Here Jesus said that love
would identify his true disciples.
Did you notice the setting
for Jesus’ discussion
recorded here in John chapter 13?
Jesus had just instituted
the Lord’s Evening Meal.
He knew that he had very little time left
before his arrest and execution.
The matter of his own integrity
was weighing heavily on his mind.
But it was so important to Jesus
that his disciples love one another
that he included it
in his parting words to them.
At the time, they didn’t know it,
but the “one another” would come to include,
not just fellow Jews,
but Samaritans and Gentiles too.
What were some obstacles
in the first century
that Christians needed to overcome?
How can their example help us?
Even though the speaker was discussing
a well-known truth,
he made it informative to his audience
by including some historical context
that his listeners may not have known
or remembered.
He chose a fresh perspective.
When preparing
to teach well-known Bible truths,
how can we come up
with a fresh perspective?
Think about the subject, and do research.
As we prepare, we can ask questions,
such as ‘who, what, when,
where, why, and how.’
And then we can answer some
of those questions in our presentation.
Perhaps we could include
less-familiar facts or current events.
However, it’s not enough
simply to present interesting information
that may not be well-known by your listeners.
We must also explain how the information
can help them in their daily life.
That requires being specific.
Perhaps we can consider
some realistic situations
and then outline how
to apply the information.
Let’s watch a publisher doing this
on a Bible study when discussing
with his student the picture and caption
on page 219
of the Remain in God’s Love book.
Look at the illustration on page 219.
What does the caption say?
“Rely on Jehovah when you are sick.”
Yes.
“Rely on Jehovah.”
What does that mean?
Let’s say you were diagnosed
with a serious illness.
How could you rely on Jehovah?
Well, the book mentions
that some treatments involve spiritism.
Even if I was desperate,
I wouldn’t choose them because they’re wrong.
Good.
What are some other ways
to rely on Jehovah when we’re sick?
Prayer.
Yes,
that’s very important.
How would that help you if you were sick?
The teacher took a general statement
—“Rely on Jehovah when you are sick”—
and helped his student to see
how it relates to him personally.
If we present information
that is informative to our audience,
we’ll stimulate their thinking
and teach them something worthwhile.